- Mathematicians are people that do a lot of [[thinking]].
- When you use a category, what other categories do you have to ignore to use that category?
- We come up with general [[rules]] to avoid case-by-case judgments.
- You need [[rigid]] [[rules]] for [[shapes]] when you're building something with material that may not fit together if they are not put together in a particular way. This we call [[geometry]].
	- Such a rule is: two [[shapes]] are the same shape if you can [[change]] one into the other by squeezing or stretching instead of gluing or ripping.
	- In [[topology]], we don't care about size. It's just if the shapes can be stretched into each other. Because of this, a triangle, a square, and a circle are all kinda the same shape.
	  collapsed:: true
		- S-one is the [[shape]] of a rubber band or a necklace. So it can be stretched to be a [[circle]] or  a [[square]] or rhombus, etc.
		- A [[line]] is a [[shape]] in [[topology]]. You can bend a line into an almost-circle, but the ends won't join, so it stays a line.
		- A figure-eight is also a [[shape]] in [[topology]]. You can stretch it however but the place where the line crosses on itself cannot be changed, in the same way that the ends of the line cannot cross.
	- There are [[infinite]] [[shapes]], given these rules. Since you can just add crossing-points and end-points to denote a new shape and you can keep adding those indefinitely, there are infinite shapes.
	- If you want to show there is an [[infinite]] amount of something, show how there's a way to keep on making more of that thing. This is called the [[infinite family]] [[argument]].
	- How are proofs accepted as proofs?
	- Since there are so many [[shapes]], people who research [[topology]] focus on [[manifolds]]. A [[manifold]] is a smooth, simple, and uniform shape such as a [[circle]], [[line]], [[plane]], or [[sphere]].
	- A [[shape]] is a [[manifold]] when it has no end, crossing, edge, or branching points. It also has to be the same everywhere.
	- People want to know what all the kinds of manifolds are.
	- You can have [[manifolds]] that are like sheets, or like dough. If the world does not suddenly stop somewhere, and if it doesn't cross over itself, it may be a manifold.
	- [[Manifolds]] that you can make out of string are one-dimensional manifolds. Since manifolds can't have end points, there are only two kinds of one-dimensional manifold: an infinite string (R-one) or a circle (or S-one).  So basically this is any closed loop or shape that goes on forever.
	- In the second [[dimension]], [[shapes]] look like 3d shapes but they're made of 2d material- sheets. Two dimensional shapes are [[sheet]] like all over- there are no edges and no cliffs (or places where they just stop).
	-
	-
- [[Process]] is what drives to the front.
- We come up with [[categories]] to [[limit]] our possibilities when the possibilities are too much to cut out a path from.
- What are the fewest [[categories]] you need to move?