- How are disparate [[spaces]] [[explained]] in such a way that [[connect]] all of them, enough for the individual [[contexts]] to be apparent in the [[explanation]]? [[synthesis]]
	- It is much easier to [[explain]] something in one [[context]] than it is to explain that thing in all the contexts in which it appears.
	- If everything in a [[space]] sticks together better with a particular [[explanation]], that explanation fits the space better. However, for an explanation to [[fit]] well, it must always be taking in the space. It cannot rest on its laurels, it must always be listening.
	- [[Explain]] things in a [[space]] in the way that [fits] with the [[fastest]] way to use what we already know to tell the [[story]] of that space.
		- It's easier to [[meet]] one [[new]] thing at a time, so it's better to tell a [[story]] one thing at a time. Part of the story is in when we meet a thing, so that things that are met earlier have a bigger part to play in things that are met later. It is easier to set up many things that lead to the next thing earlier, so that when the later thing that requires the earlier things to know is met, it is met more easily.
			- It is more useful to an [[explanation]] for our explanation to [[decide]] when we meet a thing first and when we meet a thing later, rather than deciding on when we meet a thing first and sticking to that order.
			- The less we stick to a [[plan]], the easier it is to [[change]] when the [[world]] changes.
				- Any two things that do not have a clear [[story]] connecting them to everything else in a [[space]] are [[heavier]] to carry- that is, they take more [[work]] to [[memorize]], since they are [[separate]] and irrelevant to the bodies we've already constructed.
					- Whoever can tell a [[story]] connecting two things in a [[space]] where someone cannot find a [[connection]] will come to be trusted for knowing that space. They will be assumed to be [[bigger]] in that space, and be someone to [[trust]] learning that space from.
- Everything is made of parts that are [[moving]] all the [[time]], parts that move toward each other when they're further away, and move away from each other when they're closer [[together]].
- It is easier to give someone a seed of [[knowledge]] than it is to give them a whole, fully-grown tree. This is why explaining how to [[know]] is more useful than simply giving someone knowledge.
- [[Alliums]] are self-[[propagating]]. Carrots, beets, artichoke, rhubarb, radishes, potatoes,