- Pick the [[tactic]] that puts [[time]] on your side- it's better to float on top while pressuring your opponent because they will eventually [[submit]], the longer they are in that [[position]]. [[war]]
- "We don't compromise because it's right; we compromise because it is easy and because it saves face. We compromise in order to say that at least we got half the pie. Distilled to its essence, we compromise to be safe. Most people in a negotiation are driven by fear or by the desire to avoid pain. Too few are driven by their actual goals." [[Never Split the Difference]]
	- Measure what your [[opponent]]'s [[cycle]] of [[approval]] is. Do they get paid commissions monthly? Quarterly finance report? Weekly 1-on-1? 5 year plan? [[time]]
- Remind your [[opponent]] of their [[deadline]], live in such a way as to have no deadline. [[war]]
- [[Measure]] the [[probability]] of a [[threat]] by paying [[attention]] to [[who]], [[how]], [[what]], and [[when]]- if the threat does not include a [[how]] and [[when]], it is less likely to be serious.
- [[Expecting]] someone to think like you guarantees [[surprise]].
- [[Rpg]] system where you get to improve your spread of [[stats]] by staying with the same spread, but the [[specialization]] makes it easier to [[break]], and when things [[change]] those who [[generalize]] can change more quickly.
- [[Android]] [[rts]] [[game]] where you play as a [[swarm]]. When your spread your fingers apart, the swarm spreads apart. When you draw your fingers together, the swarm tightens.
- [[Organizational]] [[surface]] [[area]] is too small relative to mass of organization- that is, it is not receiving as much input from outside the organization that it needs. There is no easy way for a customer, a client, or even an employee to bring enough [[information]] inside to affect [[energy]] requirements for the [[organization]].
- Is it easier to [[examine]] something when there is less [[energy]] there?
- you can only be [[change]]d when you [[submit]]
  collapsed:: true
	- For something to happen in [[play]], someone must be changed. People [[block]] being changed by others, because they think that is what it means to be high [[status]].
	- Notice when [[change]] is [[blocked]].
- One large benefit to [[secrecy]] is to form an [[ingroup]]. So, higher [[transparency]] [[groups]] will need to find another way to create the kind of barrier that forms groups.
- How do we determine what [[needs]] to be done and how to do it? How do we [[invite]] people to figure these out?
- [[Groups]] need to [[make]] something they can [[touch]] to come [[together]], when this is done they drift apart.
- What [[baseline]] [[behavior]] does this [[agent]] have? What [[fixed]] actions are in that baseline behavior? What triggers fixed [[action]] [[patterns]]?
- Offering a [[reason]] often auto-completes [[persuasion]], regardless of the reason.
	- Check [[associations]] and [[frames]] an opponent may have and use them.
	- [[Frustration]] at apparent willful ignorance of [[statistical]] base rates is a clue about where to find common [[associations]] that people may have. What unlikely pairings are common in cultural awareness?
	- How can you play with [[common knowledge]]?