- Musical notes have [[music]] potential, but they don't carry a [[tune]] until there is a [[relationship]] between [[notes]], and the [[space]] between these notes is where music comes to life.
- Connections to your [[base]] should be equally spaced apart as broadly as possible while still supporting your[[main body]] .
- [[Symmetric]] [[center]] position is something you [[transition]] through, not something to hang out in during a [[fight]].
- It's easier to make someone [[fall]] when they are already falling- such as when attacking the [[foot]] [[sweep]] midstep.
- The [[mouth]] must [[order]] [[thought]] because there is only one mouth, and it can only convey a [[narrow]] band of [[sound]] at a [[time]]. So [[language]] [[selects]] what [[information]] to prioritize.
  collapsed:: true
	- The [[verb]] is the center of each [[sentence]]. [[Who]], [[why]], [[how]], [[when]], [[where]], and [[with]] are structured differently depending on the needs of the language.
	- Before we express an [[idea]] in [[language]], it is useful to know what idea we want to express, and what the necessary elements of that idea are.
	- [[Language]] is [[political]] imposition of one [[dialect]] over other dialects in an area.
	- Expressing a [[thought]] or [[idea]] is far more difficult than it may appear. Usually what appears to be one [[expression]] is actually made up of many [[thoughts]].
- A [[foot]] [[sweep]] happens when one foot is [[light]] and then that lightness is used to move the foot to a position across from the body's [[center of gravity]] (as in [[inside]] foot sweep), or away from their center of gravity, as in an [[outside]] foot sweep leading them to over [[reach]] enough to fall. That is, when a [[joint]] connecting the main body to the base is light enough to allow an opponent to move that joint away from the base, disconnecting the [[main body]] from the [[base]].