- [[Social Security Number]]
  collapsed:: true
	- The first three digits is the Area Code.
		- Before 1972, the area code was assigned by which county office the SSN was applied at. After 1972, the area code was assigned by the [[zip code]] of the mailing address for the application.
			- For Social Security Number Area Codes, the [[northeast]] has the lowest numbers, and the [[West]] coast has the highest numbers.
	- The second two digits is the Group Code.
	- The last four digits is the Serial Number.
- What is made [[open]] by a [[movement]]? What is [[closed]]?
- Business
	- Start making what you make and selling it as quickly as possible. [[Move]]. Once you have something, you can see and [[listen]] to how people move with that thing, and improve it based on what you find.
	- [[Attention]] is something [[big]] companies can't provide.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Giving all your attention to the first customers will help set you apart and gather information that you can use to setup feedback loops that will lead to an exceptional product that's always improving.
	- By giving attention, you can get one customer at a time.
	- What will we [[make]], and what needs to be done to get that thing used?
	  collapsed:: true
		- Approach people one at a time, like it's a [[Quest]], and give them an [[experience]] they will never forget.
			- What can be done [[now]] that will get the customer most of what they [[want]]?
	- [[Make]], [[listen]], [[learn]], make, listen, learn, make, listen, learn.
	- Finding 10 people who are lit on fire with a [[problem]] is better than 1000 people who are slightly annoyed. The more [[energy]] is around those early customers, the more will go into what is made.
	- If one person has a [[problem]] that not many others have and they try to get you to solve their problem for them but it takes time away from what you want to [[give]], then that is a person to let go.
	  collapsed:: true
		- Will solving this problem lead you to [[focusing]] on a smaller [[group]]?
			- Will solving this problem lead to less [[energy]] to give everyone else?
	- Talk to people, [[make]] what they [[want]], [[change]] what is made to fit how they're using what is made.
	- [[Product]]/[[market]] [[fit]] is when people are [[buying]] what is made as quickly as it is made, or even more quickly.
		- If the [[market]] is [[strong]], it pulls what is made out like a [[riptide]].
			- Is what is made what the market wants? If not, make it again, closer to what the market wants.
			- With a strong market, what is made just has to work, it doesn't have to be great.
			- A [[market]] is a [[group]] of people looking for what they all want from each other.
			- Hold [[problems]] tightly, and [[solutions]] loosely.
			  collapsed:: true
				- The first few thousand solutions are probably wrong, and will need to be changed  until it works.
				- The [[problem]] should be like the problem of someone who can't [[breathe]]. They will do anything it takes to breathe again.
			- p * m / c for figuring out what's important. [[mission]]
			  collapsed:: true
				- p=how many people will this change affect?
				- m=how much closer will this get one of your people to finishing their mission?
				- c=how much energy and time will this cost?
			- Spending any [[time]] on worrying about [[competition]] takes away precious time from making strategic moves.
-