- [[Emotional]] [[energy]] may [[flow]] in any [[meeting]]. Let it [[fill]] rather than [[drain]]. It fills when everyone [[feels]] [[together]].
  collapsed:: true
	- Attend to where [[attention]] is. Bring everyone's attention [[together]]. Any [[feeling]] can bring everyone together. The feeling is channeled to get everyone to [[move]] together. Watch [[rhythm]]. Build rhythm.
	- To give yourself [[energy]], [[give]] everyone else energy.
	- A clear [[aim]] makes every moment easy to [[listen]] to. Listening, it is easy to remember. Remembering, it is easy to continue [[moving]] [[together]]. So, every [[part]] is deeply interesting because of the [[whole]] it is a part of. Feel the part for the whole. Parts are not interesting when you are [[outgroup]], when you are out of the whole (as in non-grapplers watching [[bjj]] competitions). Parts are very interesting when you are [[ingroup]], because the ingroup knows the shared aim that the parts are important to.
	- Start now.
	- Get [[energy]] from filling a small pond, then [[flow]] to a big pond. Win in small [[arena]]s, then move on to a bigger arena. [[Strength]] against [[weakness]]. [[Surfaces]] and [[gaps]]. [[Local]] first, then [[global]].
	- Monitor for [[gap]]. Do not [[move]] for an [[attack]] until a gap is found. Watch for what does not [[fit]] with the [[land]]. What does not fit with the [[whole]]. The gap is often when people are moving between fixed [[priors]]. Between fixed positions, when they are looking for another position to [[fix]] to, and put all their [[weight]] into that expected position. Once a gap is found, enter and [[tame]]. The side that is more [[united]], that is more [[aligned]], typically tames the less united side. Bring them into the fold.
	  collapsed:: true
		- [[Taming]] occurs when a more [[aligned]] part maintains their [[rhythm]] and draws another part into that rhythm.
	- [[Dense]], [[united]] [[ingroups]] are coalesced with many high [[emotional]] [[energy]] meetings, meetings that brim with [[movement]]. Shifting hierarchies between ingroups and outgroups are formed by [[canalizing]] [[groups]] into an [[arena]] with the possibility of a clear winner and winning that arena by [[taming]] other groups. [[Prestige]] comes from repeated [[change]] where an [[ingroup]] absorbs an [[outgroup]] and a part of the ingroup is associated with that change.
	- Strong [[ties]] between parts with high [[emotional]] [[energy]] bring a lot of [[change]]. The part that better pays [[attention]] to all the other high emotional energy parts (enough to be touched by them repeatedly) tends to be most [[robust]].
	- Pay [[diffuse]] [[attention]] to when and where a big [[wave]] is coming. [[Surf]] that wave. Which ponds are growing? Go there, and help coalesce a [[dense]], [[united]] [[ingroup]] there.
	- Where parts [[resist]] [[change]] is an opportunity for a part that lets change happen. The totality of [[reality]] is the most important [[whole]]. If an [[ideal]], an [[expectation]], a particular [[time]] or a [[wish]] are smaller than [[all]], they will be swept away by all. A part that is moving with what is between many other parts often ends up being most loved by all. Other's [[fixations]] are your [[advantage]].
	- Maximum [[Attunement]]
	- Where do you get [[energy]]? Go there.
- [[Attack]] when they're unstable. They're usually unstable when they're [[moving]] between [[fixed]] positions, between [[priors]].
- After the [[Soviet]] [[collapse]], [[groups]] of [[athletes]], [[martial artists]], and [[veterans]] rose to provide [[protection]] in place of the [[state]]. When the initial spike of [[inter]]-group [[conflict]] sorted the inter-group hierarchy, these [[men]], who were most familiar with [[violence]], were slowly edged out or turned into providers of [[stability]]. Those who used what they got right after the collapse to get more stable [[forms]] of [[power]] (such as legal businesses) and [[join]] with other groups to provide stability for a bigger population ended up with [[wealth]]. The groups that built mutually beneficial [[relationships]] with government officials did well, those that attacked representatives of the [[state]] were stamped out.