- [[Luck]] is easily found where the most [[change]] is.
- A [[growing]] [[pond]] is better than a [[stagnant]] pond, regardless of size.
- How to [[give]] others [[energy]], and [[receive]] what energy they offer?
	- The quickest way to [[give]] others [[energy]] is to enable [[joint attention]] by attending to what they are attending to.
	  collapsed:: true
		- What builds [[attunement]]?
	- By figuring out how others help the [[task]] of [[Now]], you gain [[energy]] from them.
		- [[Conflict]] can be used to get everyone on the same [[task]] with [[speed]]. Recall that hearing a [[No]] often reveals more than hearing [[Yes]] or [[Maybe]].
		  collapsed:: true
			- How do we turn the [[drama]] of [[conflict]] into a happy ending?
		- [[Attunement]] can arise like this: people [[gather]] in one [[place]], they look at one thing, see that they are all looking at the same thing, and share a feeling together. A [[feedback]] [[loop]] happens: more shared [[attention]] leads to more shared [[feeling]], and more shared feeling leads to more shared attention.
			- Once a strong [[emotion]] is found in a [[social]] interaction, to continue the [[play]], bounce it back and forth until there is a shared [[rhythm]] that can be used to [[grow]] [[attunement]].
			- Any [[emotion]] can be turned into more [[energy]].
			- [[Forced]] [[ritual]] [[drains]] [[energy]].
		- High [[attunement]] and sense of the [[collective]], a sense of '[[we]]', makes us want to [[move]] our bodies together.
		- The good thing about a [[win]] is the [[celebration]] after, which brings more people together.
		- One mark of high [[emotional]] [[energy]] is being in [[rhythm]] with yourself, which is also a mark of [[alignment]]. As [[Confucius]] notes that smaller stars are drawn to a larger star, a rhythm with an aligned [[flow]] draws others to the one with rhythm.
		- [[Emotional]] [[domination]] rises from one getting all the [[selective]] [[attention]], all the [[feelings]] coming from this one, and everyone else's [[rhythm]] aligning with the rhythm of the one.
	- If you find yourself with "excess" [[energy]] such as [[anxiety]] or [[insomnia]], use it.