- [[Thinking]] [[Method]]
  collapsed:: true
	- We let the learner have [[trust]] in us by not asking for something unless we have given them a way to come up with that thing by thinking about it. We also don't want to break something into smaller [[parts]] and show those parts unless they don't already know it. This will help them see that if we have not broken something into smaller parts, they can stand on that thing.
	- By showing that we [[know]] what they will ask and answering it before they ask, we are showing that they can trust us. We show that they can [[trust]] us by showing that our way will beat their way when it comes to getting what they want.
	- Look at what is done, how things [[move]], not what is told to be done. Help this way of looking by looking at many stories of what is trying to be shown. People will not know how to do what is said until they are shown how to do what is said. They will not see why something is done until what is done is shown. Much of the time, what is said only makes sense when what is happening is shown.
	- By pointing at how to [[remember]] something, we are telling people that remembering is more important than [[understanding]], so look at when remembering is pointed at.
	- To know what went wrong when something was tried, a [[teacher]] must live in the learner's [[space]].
	- By showing how someone did something right and saying good things about them for it, they are also shown if they are not doing things right, so we do not have to show when they are not doing things right as much as we say how they are doing things right.
	- How can people be given a way to do what fits best for what they are [[learning]]?
	- Many people think they are the [[language]], so they don't look at how their [[thinking]] and a language is different.
	- [[Teaching]] with a lot of [[life]] makes it easier for people to try to [[understand]] instead of looking for ways to look like a good student. Use a lot of life when the teaching first starts, and when things are very [[hard]], so that the student finds it very hard to anything other than follow your way.
	- [[Learning]] to [[understand]] from someone is an interaction [[ritual]] that gives [[energy]].
	- Teaching well is to let understanding [[flow]] through you, to be possessed by it, so that [[energy]] is always available. When teachers [[trust]] themselves and let understanding flow through them, they make it easy for students to trust them and let the [[movement]] of understanding flow into them from the teacher.
	- A [[mask]] is everything it needs to be to get the thing it is doing done, to let whatever needs to flow through this place flow. It is not you, and it is you. So, if one must be happy and open to show a thing, then the mask that is made for showing that thing will be happy and open. The more we use a mask, the stronger the mask gets. See where [[energy]] comes from, and grow the flow from that place.
	- To share [[knowledge]] that one has, lots of joyful [[energy]] is needed. If you know you can use and dissolve tension, it will bring you joy to see it. If learners smell that a teacher does not feel safe, they will not feel safe, and so they will not want to learn from the teacher. The fact of safety is something that is worked for every day. Knowing that it has been worked for, the feeling of [[safety]] cannot be shaken. Has everything be done that can be done to know these movements? If 'yes' can be said, then a feeling of being very [[safe]] will be there.
	- If something is said to one, it can be used to show something to [[many]].
	- There is no need to [[remember]] when there is knowledge of how to [[find]] what is looked for when needed. There is no need to hold on to anything because it is everywhere, just as there is often no need to hold on to air. It is what is lived in, and so is pulled when needed and let go when it is not needed. When one thing is thought about until what is looked for is found, this shows that what is needed can be found when looked for. Others can be used to ask for what is known, only feeling the shape of the [[movement]] is needed.
	- [[Learning]] hurts because it means [[change]], if one is not used to having [[power]] and learning gives more power than is expected, then learning hurts, since the expectation of having less power is destroyed.
	- If you were [[punished]] for [[knowing]] too much, then you might try to know less, and know only when you're allowed to know by a representative of [[authority]].
	- When something that is not stopping [[learning]] here is pointed at, as if it is the thing that is stopping learning, that  makes the point hard even if it was not hard before, so point only at where the hardness is being made.
	  collapsed:: true
		- If a finger is put in runnning water that is stopped by a rock, but the finger is not moving the rock out of the way, then the finger is just another hard thing that is stopping the rock.
	- Instead of [[searching]] for a list, it is faster to look for one thing. By looking for many things to find one thing, we take more time than what we would take if we just look for the one thing.
	- When [[teaching]], [[learning]] must be made to [[flow]] easily through the [[hard]] places. If something makes something hard, it often slows learning.
	-
- Why would someone stand still and exchange punches instead of taking their opponent's back and choking them out?
- An [[ally]] is someone willing to kill and die alongside you.
- [[Time]] is how [[evolution]] moves, [[differentiation]] is how [[matter]] moves, and [[communication]] is how [[society]] moves.
- Through [[selection]], [[power]] can come from how the selection gives or takes away [[uncertainty]].
  collapsed:: true
	- Power is more when it can cause a selection even when there are many other beautiful [[choices]] for [[action]] and inaction.
	- Power requires the subject to be able to choose, but still choose what power prefers- much like in effective animal [[taming]] and [[domestication]].
		- If choice is taken away to force a selection, as in [[coercion]] or [[violence]] used for [[control]], then power is lost.
			- [[Coercion]] is used when there is a lack of [[power]]. The decrease in [[complexity]] is given to the one using coercion, instead of [[spread]] around.
				- In a [[small]] [[society]], coercion can be put in one [[central]] place, but in [[big]] societies the only thing that can be put in one central place is when things can get violent. So, [[power]] is needed to let big societies use [[coercion]].
				- The wielder of [[power]] has more power when there are more and more different ways for power to [[flow]], and it is even more when it is against another power wielder that has as many ways to flow.
					- [[Power]] fills up more when all the sides working against each other are more [[free]].
					- The more ways that can be flowed to, the more [[power]] there is.
					- Instead of comparing power all the time, things are substituted for the comparison, such as asymmetric hierarchies. Usually those on [[top]] of a [[hierarchy]] have more power than those on the [[bottom]], but in a [[bureaucracy]] someone in the [[middle]] may have more power.
						- A [[record]], a [[history]] of what happened in the past is also used as a substitute for comparing power circles. What happened in the past is then turned into [[expectation]] of what will or [[should]] happen.
						- There are also half-agreements about who should get power, where someone below might go away and leave the power wielder hanging.
						- In all the substitutes for comparing power, talking or touching to decide the flow of power is replaced with a reliance on symbols.
						- Instead of testing power and measuring it, [[institutions]] provide a way to avoid having to figure out who has the most power at a given time by giving people symbols they can rely on instead- and so reduce uncertainty by providing a symbol. These institutions then make measuring power very difficult, because if there was a way to measure power, it would show that the symbols do not match the balance of power.
						- A communication [[medium]] is used to lower the feeling of not knowing by telling people what has been chosen- what has been decided, and therefore what has been simplified.
						- By pretending that everyone is [[equal]], the [[power]] differentials between people can be used by the wielder of power to limit the selections of the one it is wielded on, without the latter ever realizing that their [[selection]] was limited.
							- The wielder of power is more like a [[catalyst]] than a cause- a node that drives the downstream node faster than it would have gone otherwise.
								- The catalyst changes much but does not [[change]] as much itself.
								- By changing much without changing much itself, the catalyst gets [[time]].
								- [[Power]] is an [[opening]] to raise the chance of making an unlikely [[selection]] happen.
								  collapsed:: true
									- If it is thought that something may happen, it raises the chances of it happening.
								- Both the power wielder and the power receiver transmit and enable power, though the wielder is the one everything is attributed to.
									- Both power wielder and receiver reduce [[complexity]] through [[action]], by the receiver selecting the action that the wielder has selected for them.
										- [[Motives]] are assigned to make [[meaning]], but don't need to be attributed to find causal chains.
								-
- How to build a [[bioreactor]]?
-
-