- A [[place]] to birth [[heroes]], [[explorers]], and [[virtue]]. People to lead us into tomorrow.
- [[Steven Pressfield]]'s guide to [[writing]]:
  collapsed:: true
	- 1) Every [[work]] must be about one thing.
	  2) It must have something different about it that catches people's [[attention]] immediately, like in one minute.
	  3) Every work must start which something that pushes it along. This must point to the highest part of the story.
	  4) It should follow the parts of the [[story]] where things are laid out, put against each other, and brought together through the fight.
	  5) Every [[person]] stands for something that is in [[everyone]].
	  6) The person of the story must be the [[body]] that is the one thing the work is about.
	  7) Anyone [[against]] that person also stands for what is against the one thing the work is about. 
	  8) The [[fight]] is about the one thing the work is about.
	  9) The highest part of the [[story]] settles the one thing.
- Comment on [[Navy]] vs [[Air Force]] [[command]] [[attitude]]: "can you help me with this" vs "do that or else"
- On [[Value]] [[Proposition]]:
  collapsed:: true
	- How will this help the customer [[move]] [[forward]] on their [[path]]? Where are they headed? What would be helpful to go where they're going? [[Where]] are they, exactly, in [[place]] and [[time]]? What is the [[context]]? Where they are tells a little about where they're trying to go [[direction]].
		- IF they are there, where are they [[moving]] to?
		- How can they be helped to get to where they want to go?
		- What do they want to [[feel]]? Remember [[Shigeru Miyamoto]].
		- [[Context]] of when and where they are tells about where they are moving to.
		- No isolated [[event]], these are [[repeated]] and [[continuous]] [[flows]].
	- Whose [[need]]? When? In what [[place]] and [[time]] is it needed? What other [[feelings]] come with that need? What will help get them past what's [[blocking]] them to where they are going? [[Why]] are they doing what they're doing?
		- 1. What [[progress]] do they [[want]] to achieve?
		  2. What's the [[context]] of their climb?
			- who, while doing what, when, where
		- 3. What's in the way of [[progress]]?
		  4. Are they MacGyvering a bandaid solution? Doing nothing at all? What [[improvised]] [[solution]] are they using?
		  5. What would they consider a good solution? What would they be willing to give up for it?
	- 1. What do people [[move]] to go through to get where they are going?
	  2.  What is in their way of getting where they're going? How can we [[remove]] what's in their way?
	  3. What do they [[feel]] about getting to where they want to go?
	- What unmet [[need]] or [[desire]] is there?
	  What are people doing to meet the need with improvised, patchwork solutions?
	  What do people really not want to do that they feel they have to do? Can we [[help]] them avoid that?
	- If your product is not meant to be used for a particular path, it's important to let the potential buyer know beforehand.
	- What are you trying to move to? What's blocking you? What are the people around you trying to move to? What's blocking them?
	- Who is not using your stuff? Where are they trying to go? What could they use from you to get where they're going?
	  Sketch out your customer's [[struggle]] to get to where they're going with a [[storyboard]]. Look for words that indicate a framing of [[timing]]- "every day", "once every two weeks", "because of that I did this", etc.
	- What will they have to get rid of to use your way to get past what's blocking them from going further in their path?
	- What will mitigate the [[anxiety]] of moving to something [[new]]?
	- When do people actually [[use]] what they buy? What's the [[context]] of when they use it?
	- What's the [[story]] of how people will try to go along their path, get blocked, stop what they're already doing to proceed on their path, and use your solution instead?
	- New ideas [[win]] when they [[give]] people an [[experience]] they [[want]].
- The frustration at the lack of people's willingness to [[change]] contains the key to what they [[want]], and knowing what they want, we can trade that for our [[growth]].
  collapsed:: true
	- What will they [[want]] ten years from now? What they are refusing to [[change]] now, despite all [[environmental]] stressors to the contrary.
- A convenient thing about [[driving]] on the left side of the [[road]] is that the [[driver]] is located on the same side of the [[vehicle]] that the [[heart]] is in the [[body]].
- The [[religion]] will need to be a [[fundamental]] [[mechanism]] from which an astonishing variety of [[particulars]] can spring from.
- "One of the [[strategies]] single celled [[organisms]] use is '[[Last in First Out]]'. If the [[cell]] feels [[sick]], the first thing it kicks out is the most recently integrated plasmid."
- Things that are completely [[stable]] in our [[perception]] disappear.
  collapsed:: true
	- Part of why we have more than one [[sensor]] is to track [[change]] [[between]] them. So if you can [[measure]] something from [[two]] different points, you can [[track]] how something [[moves]] between the cone of perception in each point. The difference between what each [[eye]] sees lets us perceive [[depth]].
- If I had two hundred thousand [[dollars]] I would spend 3 hrs a day [[lifting]], 4 hours a day [[walking]] around in the [[mountains]], and 4 hours [[grappling]], [[striking]], and working with [[weapons]].
- Potential [[weapons]]:
  collapsed:: true
	- [[Revolvers]]
		- Ruger SP101 .22lr
		  Smith & Wesson Model 17
		  Smith & Wesson Model 617
		  Smith & Wesson K-22
		  Taurus Tracker 992
		- Heritage Revolvers?
	- [[Rifle]]
		- US Survival AR-7
- [[Maximalist]] with [[opportunity]], how? [[mastery]]
  collapsed:: true
	- [[Fear]] of [[bad]] outcomes makes you shut down your [[game]].
	- [[Confidence]] is a reflection of past [[experience]].
- [[Base]]= that which helps generate the [[force]] to [[move]] toward a [[goal]]
- A [[predator]] needs a [[prey]]'s flight to stimulate [[aggression]], and aggression to stimulate [[eating]].
- [[Goat]] [[walking]] is the practice of [[surviving]] in a [[harsh]] [[environment]], such as a [[desert]], by simply walking around with two female [[goats]]. Apparently, one can live off the [[milk]] of the goats.
- People need an [[ideal]] for [[tactical]] [[movements]].
- [[Friction]] occurs at the [[fulcrum]], so you need to spend more [[energy]] there.
- "An ordinary [[thief]] steals like a watch, cloth, bag. A [[political]] thief steals your education, your career, your happiness, your joy. The ordinary thieves, they locate any place where they can [[rob]], but the political thieves, they are chosen by us. We [[vote]] them. We have chosen our thieves to rob us. We are totally [[responsible]]."
- [[Water]] familiarity requirements:
	- 3000m open water swim
	  50m underwater swim
	  Retrieval of 20lbs weight
	  2 minutes water tread with weight