- Triggering [[resistance]] in someone makes it more likely that they will commit to the position they talked about- after they've talked about it. So, it will make it harder for them to [[change]] if they talk with a position against the change.
	- "[[Turn]] in the [[direction]] of the skid" while [[driving]] on [[ice]]. Once [[traction]] is established, then turn.
		- The person who is to be changed has to be the one to [[talk]] about why they should [[change]].
			- To [[change]], [[people]] need to see a difference between what they [[want]] and what is.
				- When something someone is doing goes against something they deeply [[want]], it is what they are doing that will [[change]].
				  collapsed:: true
					- Mis[[alignment]] can be necessary for [[change]], since it is the first step to noticing a [[difference]] between what they [[want]] and what they do.
					  collapsed:: true
						- What would make someone consider how the way things are doesn't [[fit]] them?
						- What would make someone consider a [[change]] to [[fit]] them?
						- What would make someone consider that [[change]] is possible?
						- What would make someone [[talk]] about how they are going to [[change]]?
					- [[Change]] can only come to people if a part of them really does [[want]] to change.
					- [[Change]] is easier when it is drawn out gently, instead of pushed.
				- A kind of [[talk]] to people to help [[change]].
				  collapsed:: true
					- collapsed:: true
					  1. [[Accept]] where people are. [[Listen]] to them to hear where they are.
					  2. Help [[explore]] what they [[want]] until they see a difference between what they want and what is.
					  3. Go in the direction of their [[resistance]] to [[change]]. This is [[Kuzushi]].
					  4. Give [[energy]] to anything they say that [[moves]] toward [[change]].
						- When something is seen as a [[block]] to their [[want]], they will be more likely to [[change]] it.
						- The perceived [[difference]] between what they [[want]] and what is has to be amplified to bridge the difficulty of [[moving]] to get what they want.
						- Ask about wants that might be blocked by the thing they are doing that needs to [[change]].
						- People are most persuaded by what they say. What do they [[notice]] that they say to themselves? What feels interesting to them? What are they excited at having said?
						- When there is [[push]] back, [[pull]] and [[move]] to [[change]] an [[angle]] very slightly.
						- Involve them in solving the [[problem]]. The [[solution]] has to be theirs, for them, to [[trust]] it.
						- When there is [[push]] back, [[shift]] to another [[angle]].
						- Someone cannot be [[responsible]] for [[change]] if they think they cannot change.
						- Offer help to [[change]], and give them the [[choice]] of taking it or leaving it.
				- A [[talk]] can move toward [[harmony]] or [[dissonance]].