- [[Niche]] [[market]] [[problem]] [[detection]]:
	- Who is [[asking]] for help with a problem?
	  Which experts are asking for help with a problem?
	  Who is helping them?
	- Who is asking for [[solutions]] to a problem they think they will face in the [[future]]?
	  collapsed:: true
		- What are the common [[recommendations]] they get?
			- Who is recommending?
			- How do people react to them when they are openly selling something?
			- Is there follow-up on recommendations?
			- How do [[people]] [[pay]] for a recommended [[solution]]?
				- How much do they pay?
	- What is their [[workflow]]?
	- What [[hacks]] are they using to patch the [[problem]]?
	  collapsed:: true
		- Is there a Google Doc doing something that would be better served by dedicated [[software]]?
	- What are they [[hiring]] for?
	- [[Ask]] them about what is getting in their way.
	- Look out for [[complaints]] about [[boredom]] or tedium, because they indicate a [[problem]] with [[friction]] that impacts [[time]].
	- Resource [[costs]]- how could resources be freed?
	  collapsed:: true
		- [[Expense]], [[money]] complaints. Are the wrong people working on wrong things?
	- [[Mask]]-related complaints: wanting to be someone. [[Status]] or [[autonomy]]. Ways to show they are [[trust]]worthy, ways to show off their [[skills]], and ways to [[show]] they [[belong]] to a [[group]].
	- [[The Eisenhower Matrix]] can be used to determine [[urgency]], similar to a [[triage]] [[priority]].
	  collapsed:: true
		- [[Awareness]] of the [[Problem]]:
		  collapsed:: true
			- Problem unaware
			- problem aware
			- [[Solution]] aware
			- [[Product]] [[aware]]
			- Most aware
	- Where do people go out of their way to [[avoid]] things that they wouldn't call a [[problem]]?
	- Adherents [[avoid]], starters [[solve]].
	  collapsed:: true
		- What is in your way?
		- What is a [[pain]] to do?
		- What is annoying?
	- What [[block]]s you from doing your job properly?
	- What is pointless to do?
	- What parts of your [[skill]] do you want to improve?
	- What are you putting off [[starting]]?
	- How do you [[show]] that you are an [[expert]]?
	- How can you [[help]] others [[win]]?
	  collapsed:: true
		- Do you [[celebrate]] wins?
	- What do others [[see]] of what you do?
	- What is in the way of your next [[win]]?
	- What do you have to do to [[climb]] the next step of the [[hierarchy]]?
	- What would make you feel [[safe]]?
	- What [[challenge]] did you [[overcome]] in [[life]]?
	- What would you prefer to not do at [[work]]?
	- What is the most [[boring]] [[problem]]?