- How can a [[link]] be made between a [[new]] [[message]] and a message of an incumbent [[group]]?
  collapsed:: true
	- How often does an [[environmental]] [[trigger]] occur? How strong is the [[link]] between the [[message]] and the [[reminder]]?
		- How many links are there for any given [[cue]]? What will people connect to this thing? How many different answers would you get in [[association]] with this thing?
			- Pick cues that are [[near]] whatever you [[want]] someone to do, so it's easy for them to [[buy]] the [[product]] or [[service]] or [[act]].
				- [[When]] are people in a [[place]] to consider this thing? What is around them in that place? [[timing]]
				- Using environmental triggers to [[sell]] is equivalent to forming a [[trigger]] action [[plan]] for someone else.
- What would give someone a sense of [[awe]]?
	- People share things that gave them a sense of [[awe]], as well as things that [[surprise]] or are of [[use]].
		- Sharing [[emotions]] acts as a [[ritual]] that gives [[energy]].
			- People are more likely to [[share]]  [[emotions]] that have to do with gaining or losing [[energy]]- emotions that are high [[arousal]] to ready someone for [[movement]].
				- [[Awe]], [[excitement]], [[laughter]], [[anger]], [[disgust]], and [[anxiety]] are all high [[arousal]].
					- For a rousing [[speech]] or [[story]], consider starting with [[anxiety]], invoking [[anger]], diffusing with a [[joke]], building anticipation for an exciting [[experience]], and finishing off with something that gives [[people]] a sense of [[awe]].
						- What other people are [[feeling]] a high arousal [[emotion]] about this thing? How can someone offer a [[Schelling]] point for them?
							- What do people [[feel]] about this [[product]] or [[service]]?  What could they feel with this product or service? How could this impact their lives?
							- When writing a [[story]], consider changing each [[scene]] to evoke different [[emotions]] and compare the effects.
							- Any sort of high [[energy]] will encourage people to [[share]] things- so catching them around physical activity will make it more likely that they will share things.
							- Consider a [[scene]] in a [[story]] where an interrogator tempts the [[prisoner]] into a high [[energy]] [[dance]] to get more [[information]] from them.
							- [[Feelings]] [[move]] people.