- In a [[story]], the people start as one thing and end up another.
- Felt a camaraderie with every hustler today. Something similar in knowing what it's like to hunt for [[angles]] in [[grappling]].
- Saw Tim at the gym. He said something led him there. Chores. Dropping something off. A road that led the [[gym]]. [[storymine]]
- What's a process that will guarantee that people will [[sleep]] well? [[business]]
- Go where the highest [[stakes]] are.
- What do people need to know to deal with more [[heat]] than they are used to? [[business]]
- Every [[story]] is about one moment. One [[time]] someone [[changed]]. The start, middle, and end are to get to that moment and then wrap it up.
	- What is the [[meaning]] of the [[moment]]?
		- The [[moment]] of [[change]].
		- Once, Alice was ______. But now, Alice is _______.
	- What is the opposite of that moment?
	- The [[start]] is the [[opposite]] of the [[end]].
	- Generate several threads for each start, middle, and end and then pick the one that resonates most.
	- In media res.
	- What are the [[stakes]]?
	- How to add or ramp up stakes?
		- Clear [[want]] and [[problem]].
		  collapsed:: true
			- A [[promise]] of what they will get from taking in the [[story]].
			- Start with a [[familiar]] [[want]], end with a strange new want.
		- Say something that will give the audience the character's [[hope]] and [[fear]].
		  collapsed:: true
			- Show what the audience needs to accept to [[feel]] what the [[character]] feels in the moment.
			- Have the characters present a plan so the [[audience]] feels like they are a part of a [[plan]], and then have to adapt to the [[problem]] when they face the problem.
		- Present half-bits of [[information]] about the [[end]].
		  collapsed:: true
			- What would let them [[wonder]] about what will happen [[next]]?
		- Take more [[time]] when the [[audience]] is in maximum [[tension]] and paying the most [[attention]]. Take very little time when the audience is not at that height of tension.
		- Have the [[characters]] make [[predictions]] that fail.
		- Put a [[camera]] in the [[scene]]- the [[narration]] should work like cameras in a movie. Situate the [[story]] in [[space]] and [[time]].
		- 'but' and 'so' offer a sense of [[change]], more than 'and'
		  collapsed:: true
			- contradiction or multiplication
		- Make the [[big]] [[story]] [[small]], and the small story big.
		- [[Surprise]].
		  collapsed:: true
			- Distract during key information with other feelings- such as making them laugh.
			- [[Contrast]] what happens just before the surprise with the surprise.
		- [[Start]] with a [[laugh]] to get [[attention]].
		  collapsed:: true
			- If laughter precedes tragedy, it hurts more. Then make them laugh again, to dissolve [[tension]].
			- From Schwarzenegger: "Starting with something disarming and [[funny]] is a good way to stand out. You become more [[likable]], and people receive your [[information]] much better."
			- For triggering a [[laugh]], put the most [[surprising]] word at the [[end]].
			  collapsed:: true
				- For a [[laugh]], the thing that is not like the others is at the [[end]].
				- [[Exaggeration]] is only [[funny]] if it's [[clear]] to the [[audience]] that it is an exaggeration.
		- [[End]] the story with [[yearning]].
		- A good [[story]] is about one thing only.
- Check [[public]] [[domain]] releases every year.
- Sorting through the thrown-up bits of [[sourdough]] [[pizza]] for [[glass]] or sand. [[Testing]] the grains on the window. [[storymine]]
- [[Experience]] is the most valuable thing.
- Penis allergic to vagina. [[storymine]]
- [[Create]] things that people will [[want]].