- For competition, Manto [[BJJ]] has been focusing on the 3 H's: handfighting, keeping their hips higher than the opponent's, and keep their hips pointed toward the ground- better known in [[wrestling]] as a [[hip heist]].
- Rob Gray of the Perception-Action school of sports learning analysis says, "[[Learning]] is not the process of [[repeating]] a solution, it is the process of repeating [[finding]] a [[solution]]."
- It's easier to manipulate and [[control]] something with [[structure]].
- To aid in learning [[tracking]], an [[aging stand]] is recommended for whatever environment you might track in. In the same way scientists study how bodies decompose, it is useful to study how things are affected over [[time]] in a given [[land]]scape.
- Pairs of [[coyotes]] make helixes as they [[move]].
- Find a thousand ways to get to the [[outcome]]. [[end]]
- For more [[power]] generated from body [[movement]], increase [[length]] and [[size]] of [[kinetic]] chain.
- When you [[storyboard]] a scene for an [[ad]], consider what questions the scene would need to pose to give the audience the answer that what you have is what they need. [[propaganda]]
- The [[timing]] of when to talk about [[solutions]] is after enough questions have been to asked to find out what [[needs]] there are. Once the needs are out in the open, they can be addressed with solutions- so long as the solutions do actually fit the needs. [[sales]]
- The founder of [[Judo]], [[Jigaro Kano]], is often quoted on the importance of 'maximum [[efficiency]]' (精力善用), but perhaps this might be better understood as '[[life]] [[force]] used well'. To take advantage of, or to practice [[good]] use of vigorous force.
- [[Roger Gracie]] on [[rote]] [[repetition]]: "The moment you know how how to apply [the mechanic], there's no more point in [[drilling]]. Now you have to [[practice]] with [[resistance]]."
- What has [[scale]]-free scalability? How can we design collectives with scale-free scalability? Is this what the conquering Mongol army was? Did every early stage world [[religion]] have this?
- How would we plant the [[seed]] for a new [[world]] [[religion]] that has a [[modular]] structure? What [[building]] [[block]] can we give people to create their own religion?