- [[Robert Pirsig]] suggests that [[frustration]] is a [[sign]] that the current [[frame]] is not [[working]].
- [[Seth Godin]] frames [[art]] as a [[gift]] that [[changes]] the [[receiver]].
  collapsed:: true
	- "Your art is what you do when no one can tell you exactly how to do it."
- [[Values]] have to come from a [[live]] interaction with the [[people]] in the [[group]].
  collapsed:: true
	- A [[motto]] follows from a [[value]] in the same way. It becomes a refrain for the [[group]].
	- A [[hunting]] club will be needed to seed the [[religion]].
- [[argument]] -> okay, what can we pay [[attention]] to?
  collapsed:: true
	- [[Argument]] is the [[process]] of making a [[result]] [[clear]]- of establishing [[causation]].
- When is the other [[animal]] going [[toward]] [[water]]? How does it differ from when they are going [[away]] from water?
- [[Resistance]] and high [[tension]] are signs of [[high]] [[potential]] [[energy]].
- For any given [[game]], what's the smallest possible [[pond]] to [[win]] in?
- A [[debt]] implies an ongoing [[relationship]]. To be [[free]] of a debt is to be free of a relationship. Free to make other relationships.
- For an [[idea]] to [[spread]], the best way for [[people]] to [[talk]] about you is when they are talking about themselves.
- [[Position]] in [[Marketing]]:
  collapsed:: true
	- The more [[meanings]] a [[name]] has, the weaker it is in taking [[root]] in someone's [[mind]].
	- What [[word]] has everyone started using that no [[company]] has [[conquered]] yet?
- What you [[touch]] the most, you [[own]].
- A decent [[therapist]] edits [[memories]] to produce [[change]] in the [[present]].
- Do for the [[future]] what you’re [[grateful]] the [[past]] did for you. (Or what you [[wish]] the past had done for you.)
- "A [[notebook]] in which you write every step of the dis[[assembly]] [[process]] with reassembly in mind."
- [[Look]] for ways to check for a [[problem]] in the [[situation]] that exacerbates it.
- To [[repair]] something well, understand how it [[works]] ([[physiology]]) and how it's [[made]] ([[anatomy]]).
  collapsed:: true
	- [[Mastery]] (as opposed to simple [[ownership]]) comes from knowing how something [[works]] and how it is [[made]].
- [[Breaks]] are to check the [[vitals]] of the [[system]].
- [[Selling]] like you're [[buying]]: do I want this person as a [[customer]]?