- A [[story]] shows [[change]] in someone over [[time]].
- The Casper Tiny Business Book Club: a way to bring tiny [[business]] starters together in Casper.
- [[Communities]] benefit from a fear of missing out, which come from [[barriers]] to entry. At the most basic level, [[time]] and [[space]] are barriers to entry.
  collapsed:: true
	- Nodes need a way to connect to other nodes directly. Lots of small gatherings are needed to make a bigger [[group]] healthy.
- Questions to ask to find a [[business]]:
  collapsed:: true
	- What [[problems]] do people have?
	- How many people share that [[problem]]?
	- Who do people get [[advice]] from in that [[space]]?
	- What are their [[weaknesses]]?
	- Which [[distribution]] models are most effective?
	- What problem isn't being solved?
- Kevin Von Duuglas-Ittu talks about "building a net with the world" to describe how competent Muay [[Thai]] [[fighters]] slowly stop [[movement]] in an [[opponent]]. This parallels "setting traps" or "creating luck". [[Position]] in an [[environment]] is used to [[block]] off movement for whoever is being [[hunted]].
	- "it is quite often a [[stalking]] [[game]] of techniques, exerting [[pressure]] on [[space]] and [[time]], until the [[kill]] can happen. At it’s highest, I suggest, it is 'building a net of the world'"
- "It's not going [[fast]] that's [[dangerous]], but stopping fast"- also applies to [[throws]] and [[unarmed]] [[combat]].
- [[Change]] creates [[tension]].
- [[Sailing]] with the [[wind]] limits speed more than sailing against it because the sail acts as a [[parachute]] and the boat can only go as [[fast]] as the wind (rather than faster).
- hips higher, square to the ground, spine aligned, between [[earth]] and [[sky]],  be upright
- "[[Magic]] only happens in a spectator's [[mind]]...focus on bringing an [[experience]] to the [[audience]]."
- Who are the passionate [[outsiders]] with no [[tribe]] yet?
  collapsed:: true
	- Who's bored with yesterday and demands tomorrow?
- When to take a [[slow]] bend, and when to go [[fast]] to float over a [[problem]]?
- Things [[fans]] of Jack Carr talk about from his [[books]]:
  collapsed:: true
	- Nonstop action (how would one make [[written]] [[action]] [[flow]]?)
	- --some chapters are still considered too long for fans
	- Cell workout routine- a fan says they're stealing the character's workout routine.
	- People are annoyed with how many books seemingly minor plotlines take.
	- Funny glimpses to the author's worldview through the glossary.
	- You know the end (Reece will escape). You know the beginning (people have cornered Reece). People read to find out the middle (how?).
	- Hatchet patches- something for people to wear or display that shows that they are fans of the story.
	  collapsed:: true
		- -A fan made a tomahawk to mimic the tomahawk used by characters.
		- -people are making breakfast dishes from the books.
		- -fans are wishing for the ability to purchase patches from the units in the series
		- -people are ordering watches that characters use in the books
	- "I have never felt as much [[anxiety]] and adrenaline listening to something before."
	- A reader has a feeling that anyone, including someone close to the [[protagonist]], could be a spy. This creates [[tension]]. Carr casts suspicion on someone close to Reece that Reece is putting all his eggs in- so the [[stakes]] are high.
	- Less politics, more ass-kicking.
	- Sucking air out of someone's throat underwater.
	- Reece's dad leaves him a note that suggests a puzzle. This puzzle is not solved until book 7.
	- People want to go to the [[places]] referred to in the book, even if they're not real- they get the idea that it is a reference to something real.
	- Who is going to die? <- creates [[tension]]
	- Redacted portion of the book.
	- How did X happen?
	- Most fans are [[listening]] to [[audiobook]], rather than [[reading]].
	- In the Blood ending.
	-
- Things [[fans]] of Heinlein talk about from his [[books]]:
  collapsed:: true
	- Quotes about the nature of humanity.
	- Quotes about political dynamics.
	- Introduction to alternative views on sexuality (polyamory, bisexuality, sexual acceptance).
	- Competent man as celebration of man.
	- A character who is what a male reader admires in women (freedom of embodied expression), followed by trauma closing the expression up. The reader cried on the scene about her having her lover come home in a coffin and hearing Taps.
- Things [[fans]] of qntm talk about from his [[books]]:
  collapsed:: true
	- [[Worldbuilding]] doesn't overexplain, which gives it room to breathe.
	- "It's nice to get a story of [[existential]] [[horror]], in the face of vast and inimical entities from beyond human comprehension, that isn't just another Lovecraft pastiche."
	- Uplifting good vs evil end despite an extremely uncertain world.
	- Human feeling contrasted against existential alienation.
	- Endings that are touching and deeply personal, as well as with a grand [[vision]] for the future of humanity.
	- Putting human life into a galactic perspective and making the reader feel insignificant in a vast world.
	- Appreciating anti-fascist just-so stories.
	- Plausible explanation of magic (perhaps echoing Wattsian vampires).
	- Hard scifi magic (the paradox attraction thingy)
	- A sense of people getting punished for being confident (the protagonist gets punished)
	- Some things remain unknown, and unexplained.
- [[Cold]] [[air]] = [[high]] [[pressure]]
  [[Warm]] air = [[low]] pressure