- Are there any [[openings]] in the middle that can be [[owned]] exclusively given current [[means]]?
- [[Change]] [[angles]], go [[around]], [[under]], or [[over]].
- What [[game]] has unlimited ([[nonlinear]]) upside?
- Where do you get to [[play]] by different [[rules]] from your [[competition]]?
- People [[worried]] about cults are mostly that way because they've already bought into a very big cult, and [[fear]] accidentally falling into a losing [[cult]].
- Nothing increases [[confidence]] like [[doing]] the thing you do.
- '[[People]] like us [[grow]]' may be the [[tribe]] to [[find]].
  collapsed:: true
	- People like us [[spread]].
- Feeling an affinity for the [[Tomahawk]]. The modern Tomahawk is a hybrid between Native American [[stone]] axes and English & French Naval boarding [[axes]]. Beautiful that it came back into American use in every [[war]], even against Army regulation at times.
- Demigodhood is about the [[followers]], not the [[leader]]. A graceful leader accepts that [[place]], no matter the [[risk]].
- The easiest way to get into a [[mind]] is to be [[first]] at something.
- [[People]] only [[accept]] [[information]] that [[fits]] with their [[present]] state of [[mind]].
- If you don't re-arrange your [[life]] to put the things most [[important]] to you [[first]], someone else will make what is only a little important to them most important for you.
- All the elements of an [[ad]] are to get you to read the [[first]] sentence of the [[copy]].
  collapsed:: true
	- What [[fits]] this [[buy]]ing [[environment]]?
	- [[People]] are more likely to [[share]] things that came to them when their [[heart]] rate was up.
	- Your [[diction]] summons a certain environment. Use the environment that [[fits]] the [[sell]].
- [[Community]] and arbitrary [[authority]] are a [[zero-sum]] [[game]].
- [[Resistance]] and high tension are signs of high potential energy.