- A sufficiently [[painful]] [[business]] [[problem]] cannot be ignored until it is addressed. Things get worse for every bit of delay.
  collapsed:: true
	- It feels like a waste of [[time]], but is absolutely necessary.
	- Needed but feels like a waste.
	- There is no [[escape]] from the problem. No way to get out of it.
	- A [[painful]] [[problem]] happens every day, week, or month.
	  collapsed:: true
		- It will be the highest thing on the priority list.
	- A [[painful]] [[problem]] has hacked-together systems in place to solve it.
	- Are people [[hiring]] employees because of this painful problem?
	- The solution must save [[time]] or [[money]].
		- It's even better if it makes them more [[money]].
	-
- When [[teaching]] a [[course]], pay [[attention]] to [[energy]].
  collapsed:: true
	- What prompts give [[energy]]? What prompts take away energy?
	- Small [[group]] [[talk]] is full of [[energy]] when [[people]] are trying to understand a [[wicked]] [[problem]].
	  collapsed:: true
		- What is right for you?
		- A question that involves the person directly with the wicked problem will grant more energy. What is your 'why' in regards to this problem? [[value]]
		  collapsed:: true
			- To involve someone directly, have the question address a time of theirs. When X happened to you, how did you deal with Y?
		- [[Groups]] are good for generation, pairs are better for considering the [[execution]] of a [[solution]].
	- [[Rob Fitzpatrick]] says, "clear [[question]], ambiguous [[answer]]".
	- [[Question]] and [[Answer]] sessions involve one person besides the teacher in the spotlight at a time. There is a [[line]], and waiting in line lowers [[energy]].
	  collapsed:: true
		- Q&A can be used as a buffer session. Something optional that can be eliminated if [[time]] is lacking.
		- Consider narrowing questions to the [[learning]] takeaways.
		- Of what we learned today, what do you think you will have trouble doing?
- When introducing people to [[fighting]], a prompt might be "what do you like doing better? [[Attack]] or [[defense]]?"
- How can we give people opportunities to learn [[decision]]-making?