- What can someone do with an everyday thing that would cause a lot of [[surprise]]? What would help [[spread]] this thing?
	- How does talking about this thing make someone look? How does it help their [[mask]]?
	  collapsed:: true
		- Is this a [[cool]] thing they could share with the people who are around them?
		- Will this make them look worldly?
		- Will this make them feel like they're [[ingroup]]?
		- What about this can they show off to others?
	- What would remind someone about our stuff? What do they [[move]] by everyday that would bring our stuff up?
	- What about our stuff has them [[feeling]] things? What would they feel?
	- Can people [[see]] other people use our stuff?
	  collapsed:: true
		- How can we make it easier to see our stuff?
	- How can they [[use]] our stuff to get where they [[want]] to go?
	- What kind of [[story]] would they [[want]] to [[spread]]?
		- People [[spread]] things they [[want]] to [[talk]] about.
			- What could be given to them to [[talk]] about that will make them seem [[cool]] or in the know?
			  collapsed:: true
				- What could the [[product]] or [[service]] do that would cause a lot of [[surprise]]?
				  collapsed:: true
					- What is an [[expectation]] people have for this type of [[product]] or [[service]]?
						- What about this [[product]] or [[service]] breaks the [[expectation]] someone might have about it, in one step?
					- What [[mystery]] can this [[product]] or [[service]] present people with?
			- How would this turn into a [[game]] that they can [[play]] and [[talk]] about trying to [[win]]?
				- [[People]] will give up [[absolute]] gain if it means they will look better than others. Most college-attendees would choose to be a big fish in a small pond, rather than a smaller fish in a bigger pond that has more food for everyone.
					- What about the [[product]] or [[service]] can [[people]] use to [[show]] that they stand higher in [[relation]] to others?