- More [[questions]] for a [[business]] to ask prospective [[customers]].
  collapsed:: true
	- What do they do now that they might keep on doing?
	  collapsed:: true
		- How much [[money]] would they [[pay]] to get what they [[want]]?
	- What do they have to do to [[buy]] something? Is there anyone they have to check with before they can buy something?
	- Who else do they think we should talk to?
	- What is the question I should be asking?
	- People need [[permission]] to help you. Give them a reason.
	- They have the [[problem]], you have the [[solution]].
	- Look for statements about what happened and [[intent]] to [[pay]], not compliments.
	- How much [[money]] or [[time]] would the idea make them?
	  collapsed:: true
		- Where in their [[life]] would the [[idea]] [[fit]] in?
		- Have they tried to solve the [[problem]]?
	- When someone says something about what they wish was around, [[ask]] about what that might allow them to do.
	- When people ask for something, wonder about what they want it for. What are they doing without what they're asking for?
	- How would the thing [[fit]] into their day?
	- Ask [[questions]] that are likely to have answers that may destroy your [[business]].
	- [[Ask]] about what [[goals]] they're working toward- it will give you a better idea of what their actual problems are.
	- When someone describes an implication 'X' to a [[problem]], ask about how they're doing 'X'.
	- Ask about how much [[time]] or [[money]] is spent on something, as well as if they intend to get money out of kt.
- When [[teaching]], your [[students]] need to [[learn]]. To learn, they need [[energy]]. With high energy, they can pay [[attention]]. Figure out how to steadily [[feed]] them energy over the [[course]].
	- [[Boredom]] sucks energy. Things that don't fit with what people think they need to get what they want also suck energy.
	- If an [[activity]] does not have a [[clear]] [[purpose]], it takes more [[energy]].
	- People get [[energy]] when they get something they feel they can [[use]] to get what they [[want]].
	- When [[people]] are given something to do, does the [[activity]] move them toward what they [[want]]?
	- Who is this [[course]] for? When do they shift away from the course? What will they get from the course?
	  collapsed:: true
		- How much [[time]] have they spent with the [[skill]]?
		- What do they [[want]] from the course?
		- What [[blocks]] them from getting [[energy]] out of the course?
		- Do they share a [[problem]] or view?
	- How many things that people [[want]] to [[learn]] can you [[fit]] into a stretch of [[time]]?