- To encourage [[change]], look for what suggests that they don't like how things are.
  collapsed:: true
	- Look for anything good they have to say about what [[change]] might do.
	- Look for anything that suggests that they could [[change]] if they wanted to.
	- Look for anything that sounds like a [[commitment]] to [[change]].
	- What makes it difficult for them to consider [[change]]?
	  collapsed:: true
		- What would it take to go where they want to go?
		  collapsed:: true
			- What worries them about how things are?
			- What makes them think they need to do something about it?
			- What happens from what they are doing now?
			- Is there anything about what they are doing now that is a reason other people might [[worry]] about them?
			- How has this stopped them from being where they want to be?
			- What will happen if they don't [[change]] what they're doing?
			-
	- How would [[change]] help them?
	  collapsed:: true
		- What would they like to be different?
		- What would be good about the [[change]]?
		- Where would they like to be in the future?
		- If the [[change]] happened now, what would [[fit]] them better?
		- What's a reason to [[change]]?
		- What would they get from a [[change]]?
	- How would they see [[change]] as [[possible]]?
	  collapsed:: true
		- What would make it so they could [[change]]?
		- What gives them [[energy]] to [[change]]?
		- When else did they make a [[change]] like this? How did they do it?
		- What do they have that no one else has that would help them [[change]]?
		- Who could help them [[change]]?
	- When would they tell you that they want to [[change]]?
	  collapsed:: true
		- What are they thinking about the thing that might [[change]]?
		- Are they feeling stuck?
		- What might they do?
		- How much do they [[want]] a [[change]]?
		- What would they try?
		- Of the things they might try, what would [[fit]] them best?
		- What do they [[want]] to happen?
		- What do they [[want]] to do?
	- Look for what they think might happen if they [[change]] vs. what they think might happen if they don't change.
	  collapsed:: true
		- What do they like about how things are now?
		- What do they dislike about how things are now?
		- How can these be illustrated visually?
	- What is a day in their [[life]] like?
	- What do you [[worry]] most about the thing that might [[change]]?
	  collapsed:: true
		- What's the worst that might happen?
		- How might that happen? What else might happen as a result of that?
	- What's the best thing that might happen?
	- How would things [[change]], if you changed?
	- Ask them about a different [[time]] in their [[life]]. Both what was, and what might be.
	  collapsed:: true
		- What happens if things don't [[change]]?
	- How is what they're doing consistent with what they want? How does it work against what they [[want]]?