- A [[story]] interests someone when there is more than one way that what is shown in the story can go, and the audience would like it more if only one of those ways happen.
  collapsed:: true
	- The audience must [[want]] something that the [[character]] wants.
	- In every moment, the [[audience]] must be given the [[experience]] of a [[choice]] between the ways the [[story]] could go.
	- [[Write]] every [[page]] like a [[Choose Your Own Adventure]].
- [[Questions]] to ask if you are giving people a [[product]] or [[service]]. From [[Michele Hansen]].
  collapsed:: true
	- What are they trying to do?
	- What are the steps of the [[workflow]]?
	- Where are they now?
	- Where in their workflow is the problem?
	- How often do they get blocked from what they're trying to do?
	- What have they tried?
	  collapsed:: true
		- How often does the [[problem]]-step [[block]] them in their [[workflow]]?
		- How much [[time]] or [[money]] are they paying to fix it now?
	- What do they want?
	- What did they use to try to get what they want? (esp MacGyvered stuff)
	- What does it [[cost]] if they get it wrong?
	- What goes into their [[decisions]]? In their words, [[why]] do they choose the [[solutions]] that they choose?
	- What happens if they don't solve the [[problem]] well?
	- Who else is part of the [[decisions]] they make about the [[problem]]?
	- How will they [[feel]] is the [[problem]] is or isn't solved?
	- Who might they [[talk]] to if the [[problem]] is or isn't solved?
		- What would they say about how they solved the [[problem]]?
		- What would they be proud or ashamed of sharing?
- Is this something [[people]] [[want]]? Is this something they can figure out how to [[use]]? Will it make [[money]]? Is this something we can [[make]] or do?
- Five people is often enough [[interviews]] to make a [[business]] [[decision]] that requires interviews, but another heuristic is "stop when you start hearing the same things over and over again".
- Framing [[questions]] based on [[time]] often works better than asking [[why]]. This is probably because 'why' summons [[causal]] [[explanations]]. So, "what did you do before this?" instead of "why did you start doing this?".
- Talk to your happiest customers to see how to bring more [[happy]] customers.
- Help them forget you are a [[person]].