- [[Distance]] gives you [[time]]. [[Angles]] give you a way to [[flank]].
- [[Questions]] for district or city [[attorneys]].
  collapsed:: true
	- If [[prosecution]] is an [[assembly]] line [[process]], what are the [[constraints]]?
	- What do you do in every single [[criminal]] [[prosecution]]?
	- How often do they go to [[trial]]?
	- Who are the [[defense]] [[lawyers]]?
	- What are plea dialogues?
- Show them [[chaos]], and present an [[alternative]].
  collapsed:: true
	- Offer [[stability]] in the face of that chaos.
- [[Dormancy]] lets [[seeds]] [[disperse]] through [[time]].
- [[Police]] Departments found it easier to [[recruit]] following police attacks in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
- The US military found it much easier to [[recruit]] during the second gulf war, as well as right after [[9/11]].
- If someone is [[blaming]] someone consistently for anything that goes wrong in their [[life]], it is a sign that they are [[owned]] by that person.
- [[Seeds]] must have ways to [[spread]], [[feed]], and protect baby plants.
- 100 million dollar offers:
  collapsed:: true
	- 1. Pain /what life would like without the pain
	  2. Purchasing power
	  3. Easy to target/symbols where they are already gathered
	  4. Growing market
	- The point of writing is for the reader to understand.
	- The point of [[copywriting]] is for the prospect to feel [[understood]].
	- People [[want]] [[health]], [[wealth]], and [[relationships]].
	- In order of easiest to [[sell]] to: Starving crowd > offer strength > [[persuasion]] skills
	- [[Price]] is what you [[pay]], [[value]] is what you [[get]].
	- The [[Value Equation]]: Dream outcome x perceived likelihood of achievement / [[time]] delay * [[effort]] + [[sacrifice]] = [[value]]
	- Talk in terms of how the prospect will get [[status]] from other people.
	- People [[pay]] for [[certainty]].
	- Most people want an early [[victory]]. So [[fast]] beats [[free]].
	- What points of [[friction]] exist for them if they accept your [[offer]]? What's the next [[obstacle]]? The obstacle after that? And that?
	- Generate a [[solution]] to every [[problem]].
	- [[Urgency]]: [[deadlines]] make [[decisions]].
	- Seasonal offers should occur more often with local [[businesses]].
	- 1-on-1 delivery bonus after [[sale]]?
	  collapsed:: true
		- Add [[bonus]] to account for each verbalized [[obstacle]].
	- A [[lead]] is a person you can [[reach]].
	  collapsed:: true
		- A good lead is a person you can reach who has shown interest in your [[product]] or [[service]].
		- Have a library of [[lead magnets]] you can rotate.
	- A good [[call to action]] tells you what to do and [[why]] you should do it right now.
	-
	-
- [[Dotcomsecrets]]:
  collapsed:: true
	- who do you like working with most?
	  collapsed:: true
		- what dramatic [[transformation]] do you want to help them make?
		- where are these people?
		- how can you find them online?
		- what [[bait]] works on them but [[pushes]] everyone else away?
		- where to find them?
		  collapsed:: true
			- what [[groups]] are they a part of?
			  newsletters?
			  discords?
			  forums?
			  subreddits?
			  twitter circles?
			  what other interests do they have?
	- create customer avatars of who you want to work with
	  collapsed:: true
		- include their [[dreams]], [[fears]], [[passions]], [[goals]], & [[desires]]
	- [[bait]] is anything the [[fitting]] [[customer]] would pay [[attention]] to and [[want]]
	  collapsed:: true
		- book
		- online report
		- podcast
		- tool
	- what result do you want to give them?
	  collapsed:: true
		- change
		- A business is not about [[products]] or [[services]], it is about a [[change]] that [[clients]] want.
	- free stuff is [[bait]] to generate [[leads]]
	- who am I trying to [[reach]]? where do they [[gather]]? where are their watering holes?
	- Three Types of [[Traffic]]:
	  collapsed:: true
		- 1. Traffic you don't control. (external site)
		  2. Traffic you control. (newsletter/subscriptions)
		  3. Traffic you own. (when they're on your page)
	- The back [[story]] has to relate to the [[product]] or [[service]] being sold. If it's a financial product, the story has to be about something that changed with the character in regard to finances.
	- What are the stories that have happened in the relatable character's life?
	- A [[story]] is more powerful than telling someone what would work.
	- Polarize with the truth of the character. This helps with [[selection]].
	- What's going on with the relatable [[character]]?
	  collapsed:: true
		- what embarrassed them
		- what did they enjoy having bought
		- what made them frustrated yesterday that they're happy about today
		- what antics did your kid get into
		- what funny thing happened to them that teaches a lesson
	- every e-mail has to tie back to an offer
	- Reverse engineering successful [[sales funnels]]:
	  collapsed:: true
		- Demographics
		- Offer
		- Landing page
		- Traffic source
		- Ad copy
	- Don't create [[traffic]]. Look for it and tap into it. It is something you find when foraging.
	- "The [[money]] you make in your [[business]] depends on how well you manage
	  the [[experience]] of every person who comes in contact with you—no matter how long they stay"
	- Setup [[frame]] that is conducive to a [[long-term]] [[buying]] relationship.
		- collapsed:: true
		  1. What is the [[mindset]] of people in the [[traffic]] you're trying to pull to your [[landing page]]?
		  2. Setup Pre-Frame Bridge
		  3. Qualifying
		  4. Who is a buyer?
			- "If your prospect is aware of your [[product]] and has realized it can satisfy his [[desire]], your [[headline]] starts with the product. If he is not aware of your product, but only of the desire itself, your headline starts with the desire. If he is not yet aware of what he really seeks, but is concerned with the general problem, your headline starts with the problem and crystallizes it into a specific need."
			- Hot Traffic is people who already know who you are.
			- Cold Traffic is people who have no idea who you are.
			- hot traffic bridge: they already trust you, so keep it short
			- warm traffic bridge: longer than hot, needs endorsement
			- cold traffic bridge: very long, they need to be framed before they hit landing page
				- they need to be introduced to the concepts ([[inferential gap]] must be bridged)
				- 'bridge page' before 'offer page'
				- they may not understand the [[problem]], so you will have to show them the cause of a surface problem
			- Will they buy?
			- Will they subscribe to a list?
		- As soon as they [[subscribe]], give them a way to [[buy]] something.
		  collapsed:: true
			- Something priced extremely low that is high value.
		- 5. Who is a hyperactive buyer?
		- Typically in some sort of [[pain]]/starving with a [[problem]].
		- For example, catching someone right after a humiliating [[defeat]]. They will buy multiple items.
		- When in [[pain]] and on a quest, they will spend money to further that quest.
		- collapsed:: true
		  6. Age & Ascend Relationship  on Ladder
			- With [[time]], provide more [[value]].
		- collapsed:: true
		  7. Change the Selling Environment
			- Switch to phone, video, in-person, snailmail, or live event.
			- Think of it as being invited to the VIP section, staff section, or holy of holies in a [[temple]].
		- You may bump a purchase in the same way grocery stores sell candy bars and tabloids. Offer a one-time purchase that complements the main purchase.
		- Downsell: if they don't take the bump, offer a [[downsell]].
- [[Shaping]] [[Work]] by 37Signals:
  collapsed:: true
	- "[[Estimates]] start with a [[design]] and end with a number. Appetites start with a number and end with a design. We use the [[appetite]] as a creative [[constraint]] on the design process."
	- Check [[want]] to use as a [[constraint]]. The more want, the more [[time]] can be spent. The less want, the less time is spent.
	- “fixed [[time]], variable [[scope]],”
	- "The best is relative to your constraints."
	- “We can only [[judge]] what is a [[good]] [[solution]] in the [[context]] of how much [[time]] we want to spend and how important it is.”
	- "Beware the simple question: “Is this possible?” In software, everything is [[possible]] but nothing is [[free]]. We want to find out if it’s possible within the appetite we’re shaping for."
	- What is [[possible]] given what we [[want]]?
	- "People need to feel the [[deadline]] looming in order to make trade-offs".
	- [[Time]] is the ultimate [[constraint]].
	- "When people ask for “just a few hours” or “just one day,” don’t be fooled. [[Momentum]] and progress are second-order things, like [[growth]] or [[acceleration]]. You can’t describe them with one [[point]]. You need an uninterrupted curve of points. When you pull someone away for one day to fix a bug or help a different team, you don’t just lose a day. You lose the momentum they built up and the time it will take to gain it back. Losing the wrong hour can kill a day. Losing a day can kill a week."
	- "You can’t ship without making hard [[decisions]] about where to stop, what to compromise, and what to leave out."
	- "But crises are rare. The vast majority of bugs can wait six weeks or longer, and many don’t even need to be fixed. If we tried to eliminate every bug, we’d never be done. You can’t ship anything new if you have to fix the whole world first."
	- "we mainly [[bet]] the [[time]] on spiking some key pieces of the new product idea. The shaping is much fuzzier because we expect to learn by building."
	- The [[time]] you give is a [[bet]] you place.
	- "...you can’t [[delegate]] to other people when you don’t know what you [[want]] yourself."
	- [[Research]] & Design cycles don't ship: "The goal is to learn what works so we can commit to some load-bearing structure: the main code and UI decisions that will define the form of the product going forward."
- The [[cost]] of user [[interface]] changes hurt the average person more than they hurt the average developer.
- "it has to fit in the head of the programmer to be maintanable"
  collapsed:: true
	- if they can read the whole thing and understand it, then it is maintainable
	- [[maintenance]]
- One of the greatest difficulties with managing [[knowledge]] workers is telling the difference between [[waste]] and work.
  collapsed:: true
	- With [[innovation]] as a [[goal]], most managers have no way to tell the difference.
	- This is because no one knows what the worker knows, except maybe the worker.
	- So the organization would need to rely on [[culture]].
- "The word [[Andhra]] is first observed from Udyotana's description of 'those with beautiful bodies, who love [[women]] and [[war]] alike and are great consumers of [[food]]' in 779 CE"
- Social [[tracks]] are like physical tracks: it's possible to [[contaminate]] the [[sign]] if you step on it.
- "The most [[information]] dense [[communication]] looks like [[noise]]. Therefore thermal motion of atoms is a very high bandwidth communication between unknown entities."