- To raise [[children]], Laszlo [[Polgar]] setup an environment for [[autonomy]] and agency.
	- Polgar needed to work with his children, rather than telling them what to do.
	- The father's role was an enabler, an opener of ways.
	- The father's goal was to provide the "highest possible level of [[freedom]]".
	- They are not marionettes, but in a traditional [[school]] they are.
	- Polgar does not assert that raising competent children leads to happiness, but that they will at least have the same opportunities for happiness as normal children.
	- He did not like that older, more static leaders were followed instead of younger, more dynamic leaders.
	- Polgar rejected the [[middle]]. "Mediocrity, the orientation to
	  the middle, I refuse out of principle."
	- Polgar was intent on quality.
	- Polgar saw himself as someone who shapes his own destiny.
	- Polgar was against compromise.
	- He preferred defeating obstacles to worrying about them.
	- Laszlo and his wife had the premise that every healthy child could be raised to be an outstanding person.
	- They believed that every outstanding person had a trainer who was obssessed.
	- “It is better not to say that geniuses are not often born; say rather that we do not often raise them.”
	- Polgar figured that people are shaped by the body they are born to, the effect of the [[environment]], and a 'self-[[creation]]' that happens from personal experimentation.
	- Great capability comes from [[creativity]] expressed in concrete [[action]].
	- "...every child born healthy is potentially a genius, and if one pays
	  enough attention, they will in fact become one."
	- The ultimate goal is human happiness- which is enabled by genius.
	- "I criticize contemporary schools because they do not educate for
	  life, they equalize everyone to a very low level, and in addition they do not tolerate the talented and those who diverge from the average."
	- "My daughters, who have never visited a [[school]], grew up much more in the context of real [[life]]."