- What's one [[feeling]] you can [[own]] and consistently deliver?
- [[Search and  Seizure]].
- Short  [[videos]]:
  collapsed:: true
	- [[Contrast]]/paradox
	  I want do X but Y is in the way
	- How am I going to do X?
	- Simple, universal to [[audience]], ideas
	- First word has to be a [[hook]]
	  "Free" is good, "this" is bad
	- Hook has to be clear about what the conflict is and what is at the end
	- First frame has to be like title or thumbnail, high saturation and high contrast
	- [[Foreshadowing]] tells the user what gift they will get at the end
	- Rewatchable:
	  Lists
	  Easter eggs 
	  "Twists"?
	- Add conflict as the video goes on
	- [[But]],so
	  But, [[therefore]]
		- South Park
	- Include a [[Why]]
	- Keep ending short but with a payoff
- Incident management game
  collapsed:: true
	- Rescue -> recovery, budget drops drastically
- A pilot is constantly seeking [[balance]].
  collapsed:: true
	- "Redefine the fight"
	- Aviate navigate communicate
- [[Links]] should be [[titles]] worth clicking on.
- Let yourself be possessed by the web that has the [[problem]].
- [[Constraints]] [[shape]] multiple [[parts]] into one.
- "ecology is the science of understanding consequences"
- [[Plants]] for BSk shortgrass prairie.
  collapsed:: true
	- Pediomelum esculentum
	  id:: 66a01c43-fa3a-4c3a-8ddf-21bf715090c5
	  Blue grama
	  Crested wheat
	  Western wheatgrass
	- Textile Onion
	- Winterfat
	- Chokecherry
	- Fringed sagewort
	  Arrowleaf balsamroot
	  Hawksbeard
	  Sticky purple geranium
	  Scarlet globemallow
	  Sulfur-flower buckwheat
	  Tumblemustard
	  Western wallflower
	  Western yarrow
	  Rosa woodsii
	- Antelope bitterbrush
	  Gardner saltbush
	  Greasewood (livestock need high calcium grasses to counter)
	  Green rabbitbrush
	  Mountain mahogany
	  Shadscale saltbush
	  Shrubby cinquefoil (good for goats, bad for cattle)
	  Silver sagebrush
	  Wax Currant
	- Mountain snowberry
	  Serviceberry
- “An earthquake achieves what the [[law]] promises but does not in practice maintain,” one of the survivors wrote. “The [[equality]] of all men.”
- Anytime there's a [[block]], move back and restart the [[attack]] from a stronger [[base]].
- Getting past the [[elbow]], [[handfighting]] [[unarmed]]
  collapsed:: true
	- If their arms are down, [[attack]] the head.
	  If they're on the [[inside]], go around the [[outside]].
	  If their arms are up, go under for the body.
	  If they're narrow, go for the outsides.
	  If they're wide, go for the insides.
	- If they're inside legs, they can attack legs but not so much upper body. If they're outside, they can attack upper body but not so much legs.
- "[[time]] given away...is time you don't [[own]]"
- Show them [[chaos]], and present an alternative of [[order]].
- [[Dormancy]] lets [[seeds]] disperse through [[time]].
- [[Distance]] gives you [[time]], Angles give you a way [[out]] or to [[flank]].
- "never sit against a [[swarm]] [keep [[moving]]]"
- John Allen Paulos on complex systems: "[[Uncertainty]] is the only certainty there is. And knowing how to live with insecurity is the only [[security]]."
- Improve [[entertainment]] first before [[ask]].
- [[Copywriting swipefile]]
- A sensory 3d map of the [[odor]].
- "it must hold the country by the [[sword]] or in [[fear]] of it"
	- "For if the vanquished has lately felt the sword, the victor may for a time carry an empty scabbard with impunity. But in the end, to rely on the scabbard alone brings more bloodshed than to have the sword always ready within."