- To help one part [[move]] to be in a good place to [[fix]] the people we are [[against]] until they have no way to [[attack]] us, we call for [[fire]].  This means things like attacks from far away [[planes]], [[ships]], [[rockets]], and [[artillery]], as well as things that are less far away, like [[mortars]], but usually they all can't see what they are [[shooting]] at [[face]] to face. So they [[need]] people to help [[say]] where to [[hit]], and how to change the way they are shooting to hit in the right place when they [[miss]].
- The people in the [[front]] who see where fires can [[hit]] from [[guns]] have the job of finding places to hit, asking for guns to [[fire]], telling the people using the guns where to hit, and tells everyone where the guns hit. We call these people '[[Forward Observers]]'. On top of all of the above, their big job is to help the person who is [[leading]] with anything to do with planning how to help the guns find places to hit and fire on those places.
  To do their job, Forward Observers need a way to [[move]] quickly (such as a car that will drive off road), a few ways to track where they are, a few ways to talk to people who are using the guns and planes and ships, and another few ways to see how far different places to hit are from each other, from them, and from the guns- both during the [[day]] and at [[night]].
- Other things that are part of their job are to help [[plan]] where the guns will [[fire]], to know the ways of the people they will work with, and to know how everyone will move and stop [[attacks]]. They also need to know where the people who are [[against]] them are. To do that, they need to always look at where the [[group]] they are helping is [[moving]], or where everyone's guns are going to fire at.
  So, find the places the guns will want to [[attack]], what is needed to attack those places, and what will make us want to attack a given place. When you have time, [[draw]] the [[forms]] of the [[land]] that are you are looking at, to make it easier to find [[spots]] that you may attack. Don't forget to draw the spots that you can't [[see]] from where you are- point at them so everyone knows that people who are against us might be [[hiding]] there.
- Tell everyone what the people who are against us are up to. Do this by noting how big they are, how they're moving, where they are, when they were where they were, and what they seem to have. [[SALUTE]] [[report]]
	- [[Size]], [[Activity]], [[Location]], [[Unit Identification]], [[Time]], [[Equipment]]
- Always talk with the people who pick and check [[where]] the fires will go. Let them know where we are to within 100 meters (6pt grid), at all times. Let those [[leading]] know every time you're [[moving]] 500 meters, or over 2km if you're moving real [[fast]].
- Remember to look for places to [[hide]] in as you [[move]] through them,  as well as places to take [[cover]] in if those who are against us start to hit us. You can also use your [[attacks]] to make cover.
- [[Fix]] things before they [[break]], and have a [[plan]] for what to do when they break.
- Show others how to do what you are doing. One day you might be [[dead]] and they will have to do it.